When America’s Department of Justice (DOJ) released over 3m documents from its investigations of Jeffrey Epstein at the end of January, we set out to answer the simplest newsworthy question we could devise: with whom did Epstein email most often? At first, even such a basic exercise seemed like a daunting lift. Although emails are of course originally digital, the DOJ inconveniently seemed to have printed out 1.4m emails and then scanned them back in, producing a dataset of PDF files littered with typos from faulty optical character recognition (OCR). It might have taken us weeks to determine reliably which documents were emails, extract the text and parse out senders, recipients, dates, subjects and message bodies.

Fortunately, a group of volunteer software engineers had already undertaken this task themselves and uploaded the results to a website called Jmail, which presented them in the familiar format of users’ own Gmail accounts. We contacted its founders, and they were eager to collaborate.

Jmail kindly gave us access to their data, though they warned that they would need a few more days to convert the full archive. I immediately ran an initial set of counts, only to see that there seemed to be untold rows referring to the same person: an individual could appear under their name (sometimes first name only, sometimes with an initial, etc.), any number of email addresses, or both, and each of these options in turn had a wide array of OCR-induced misspellings. I spent a rather tedious weekend working on a program to consolidate this smorgasbord into a mutually exclusive, collectively exhaustive list of correspondents and shared my results with the Jmail team, who then replicated and improved this process (using some of my code) to offer person-level filters on their site.


The resulting list included a few boldface names—Elon Musk and Woody Allen needed no introduction—but I had never heard of most of the people at the top. Googling and perusing the archive made clear that the bulk of Epstein’s emails were with his staff and contractors. To filter out such people and make sure that we identified Epstein’s prominent correspondents correctly—he was in touch with Boris Nikolic the immunologist, not the late fashion designer, and David Stern the aide to Prince Andrew, not the basketball commissioner—I started wading through the list, using a large language model to identify well-known names and reading through the messages myself for the rest. With help from a few colleagues, we classified the top 500 people in Epstein’s email network by their industries and roles in his life.

This effort yielded an unparalleled map of Epstein’s personal and professional network, which formed the heart of our article and a popular video. But raw counts alone could not answer some of the most pressing questions that remain about Epstein: how much did others know about his crimes, and who else might have been involved? In an effort to find newsworthy needles in a massive haystack of mundane emails, we asked ChatGPT to score every thread in the archive based on how disturbing it would be to an average reader. I then spent an even less pleasant evening reading through as many of those given the maximum score as possible.

I came across only a handful of eyebrow-raising emails involving people with public profiles, most of which had already been noticed by other reporters. But the archive did make clear that the network of people who arranged for young women to meet Epstein was far larger than just Ghislaine Maxwell, his convicted accomplice. It included modelling scouts, musicians and little-known women who may also have been victims themselves. Epstein may have kept his professional and criminal lives more separate than conspiracy theorists assume, but the emails make clear that such “scouts” were just as much a part of his operation as his armies of property managers or accountants.


For nearly a decade information about the life of Jeffrey Epstein has emerged in dribs and drabs. Now, in the wake of an American law passed in November compelling the release of prosecutors’ files, the trickle has turned into a torrent. On January 30th the Justice Department published over 3m pages of documents. The release has claimed scalps, including Brad Karp, head of a large law firm in New York; Miroslav Lajcak, Slovakia’s national-security adviser; and Jack Lang, boss of the Arab World Institute, a Parisian cultural centre. More are likely. Following complaints by members of Congress, the Justice Department has begun exposing names it had blacked out.
The archive is too big for anyone to have read even a fraction. Fortunately, a group of software engineers has turned the PDFs into a format that is easier to analyse. Using Reducto, an AI tool, they have identified which files contained emails; extracted the listed senders, recipients, dates, subjects and message bodies; and posted them on a website called Jmail.world. In total, the group processed 1.4m emails, finishing its work on February 11th. The Economist has collaborated with it to assign each message to unique individuals regardless of spellings or email addresses, and researched the backgrounds of the 500 people who appear most often. We then used a large language model (LLM) to score each email chain on how disturbing its content would be to a typical reader, creating an “alarm index”.

Emails from top 500 Epstein correspondents, excluding staff

Tech

Finance

Media/entertainment

Media/entertainment

Tech

Finance

Jes Staley

4,566

Peggy

Siegal

6,437

Joi Ito

8,400

Michael

Wolff

4,831

Ariane de

Rothschild

5,532

Law

Law

Kathryn

Ruemmler

11,265

Academia

Academia

Boris Nikolic

15,503

Sultan bin

Sulayem

5,194

Real

estate

Business

Real

estate

Business

Lawrence

Krauss

7,593

Martin Nowak

5,698

David

Mitchell

7,554

Tom Pritzker

5,029

Deepak Chopra

5,348

Other

Other

Ghislaine

Maxwell

10,186

Girlfriends/exes

Girlfriends/exes

Peter

Mandelson

4,597

Politics

Politics

Ehud Barak

4,248

Karyna Shuliak

41,091

442,470 total emails

Manually coded based on public information and email content. Some classifications,

particularly those in which women count as consensual romantic partners, are subjective

Most of Epstein’s correspondence was with his staff, service providers and business contacts. People who worked for or with him made up a third of the top 500 names and accounted for nearly three-fifths of his messages. Chief among them were Lesley Groff, his assistant; Richard Kahn, his accountant; and Larry Visoski, his pilot. Homes in New York and Palm Beach, and his private Caribbean island, required armies of contractors and housekeepers.
The rest of the emails, however, depict a remarkable network. The top 500 correspondents come from a number of different industries. Some 19% of messages were with financiers; 10% with scientists or doctors; 8% with people in media, entertainment or public relations; 7% with technologists; 6% each for lawyers, politicians, academics and other businessfolk; and 5% with property magnates. The share of contacts in finance peaked at 25% in 2014 and then fell as those in academia and law rose. Most correspondents were based in America, though Epstein kept ties with Britain, France, Germany, Nordic countries, Gulf states and even a Venezuelan oil trader.
Emails exchanged with Jeffrey Epstein
Monthly total
1
10
50
100+
 
Sent/received ratio
Total
Kathryn Ruemmler Former White House Counsel
0.7
11,265
Lawrence Krauss Physicist
1.2
7,593
Ariane de Rothschild Banker
2.7
5,532
Thomas Pritzker Hyatt Hotels chairman
0.6
5,029
Michael Wolff Journalist
0.8
4,831
Noam and Valeria Chomsky Linguist; Translator
0.5
4,431
Larry Summers Former US treasury secretary
0.6
4,294
Steve Bannon Former White House strategist
0.6
1,974
Reid Hoffman LinkedIn founder
0.3
1,737
Bill Gates Microsoft founder
0.1
542
Elon Musk Tesla/SpaceX CEO
0.7
447

He did not waste time on middle managers. A quarter of his top non-staff contacts have a Wikipedia page. He traded emails with at least 18 current or former billionaires, including Peter Thiel and Elon Musk; celebrities like Woody Allen and Deepak Chopra; and political figures such as Ehud Barak, a former Israeli prime minister. Most back-and-forths were balanced, with similar numbers of emails sent and received; an exception was Bill Gates, whom Epstein bombarded despite few responses. (Mr Gates was happy to meet Epstein on a number of occasions, however.)
Many relationships went far deeper than the occasional cocktail-party photograph. Epstein and Kathryn Ruemmler, the White House counsel under President Barack Obama, swapped 11,300 emails from 2014 to 2019, with at least one direct message on 70% of days. Ariane de Rothschild, a banking billionaire, sent or received 5,500 emails; Larry Summers, a former treasury secretary, 4,300. In some cases Epstein grew close to family members: he was in touch with both Noam Chomsky, a linguist, and his wife, Valeria, and chatted with Soon-Yi Previn, Woody Allen’s wife, more than with Mr Allen himself.
Sample of 653,550 Epstein email chains
1. Routine
588,157 emails
2
3
4
6
7
8
9
10. Very disturbing
1,474 emails
The vast majority of Epstein’s emails contain nothing more worrisome than typos. But buried in a million mundane missives are hundreds that our LLM flagged as disturbing. Its alarm index scored each exchange from one to ten. Here are some examples from along the spectrum.
Score 1
To: “Daphne Wallace”
From: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Sent: 2013-06-21 17:20:55
Subject: nan
Tell jimmy that patio is an inch an a half lower than pool , so a drop of 1.5 in in 20 ft
Score 4
To: “███████████”
From: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Sent: 2016-04-20 12:07:00
Subject: Re: London folk
great britain is an island with a long history of incest=C2 or inter cousin marrriage , as there was no where to go withou= crossing a sea
To: []
From: ███████████
Sent: 2016-04-20 05:53:00
Subject: Re: London folk
One good thing =bout London is how outright ugly everyone is... Take for instance ████ s=e's like an 8 or 9 and I'm like a solid 8. But in London were defi=itely 10's!!! .
Score 8
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>
From: Unknown
Sent: 2009-08-18 15:51:29
Subject: Re:
I have friends, mostly old ones :)
No new boys since I live with my boyfriend.
And sometimes I meet nice girls, I will let you know if I have someone.
There are sexual messages between Epstein and women with redacted names, often involving requests for nude photos. In some cases, there are also references to avoiding parents. Epstein reviews a draft agreement “governed by French law” with an “apprentice”, requiring “sexual games”. One message from a redacted sender reads: “Thank you for a fun night ...Your littlest girl was a little naughty.”
People who were in Epstein’s orbit frequently claim ignorance. An email in 2010 from the brother-in-law of Ghislaine Maxwell, an accomplice of Epstein, lends some credence to the idea. It cites an effort to remove details from his Wikipedia page and Google. Some messages with famous friends are boorish; others talk strategies for his criminal cases, including a few where he seems to admit to paying for sex. Prosecutors should prioritise the handful where associates, including rich friends with unredacted names, discuss evenings with “girls” he arranged for them to meet.
But most often the emails our LLM flagged were with young women or little-known accomplices. This pattern may be because it failed to spot incriminating messages sent to prominent contacts or because redactions are protecting people. Epstein was also careful. When discussing women with Steve Tisch, owner of an NFL team, whom Epstein calls “a new...shared interest friend”, Epstein requests a phone call because “I dont like records of these conversations.” (Mr Tisch says he regrets his relationship with Epstein and that all emails concerned “adult women”.)
The latest release leaves questions about Epstein unanswered, including how he secured a sweetheart plea deal in 2008 and killed himself in jail despite surveillance. Still, some are already satisfied. Like a normal inbox, Jmail is sorted from newest to oldest messages. The very first email is thus one that arrived three days after Epstein’s death, from someone called Cody Rudland, whose name does not appear earlier. “You are dead,” reads the subject, followed by the body: “Lol good riddance.” ■